Unicode is also just a mapping system from numbers to letters but in different languages. In this mapping system, each symbol or letter is stored within 32 bits which gives us 4 billion possible permutations of binary digits (0, 1). To ensure that especially smaller demographics of humans speaking lesser-known languages are nonetheless represented and preserved digitally using some mapping of these 0's and 1's. Even the emojis that we use on a daily-basis are fonts of unicode. Meaning that they are represented with a sequence of 0's and 1's. However, they do render differently on your devices compared to someone elses or maybe it would not render at all, why you may ask? It's mainly because your device may not be up to date.

Folks who work on unicode regularly on the early basis are adding more fonts to the collection (those fonts can be emojis or any other symbol or letter of other languages). Nowadays, we can also add different colors to our emojis that we think that it suites us. How's that possible??? It is possible, the first combination or let's say a sequence of bit would give us the emoji that we want to use along with its default color (yellow), but when it's followed by a certain pattern of bits after that default sequence of emoji, then it is possible to add or let's say change the skin tone of the emoji that we're using.

Now we also use emojis that looks like one but has three different characters like, 👩‍❤️‍👩 → here we see three different characters but as a single emoji, but these are three different fonts but combined as one.